Add text-spacing-trim ref doc (#34484)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/text-spacing-trim/index.md

---

{{CSSRef}}{{seecompattable}}

The **`text-spacing-trim`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property controls the internal spacing set on Chinese/Japanese/Korean (CJK) punctuation characters between adjacent characters (kerning) and at the start or end of text lines.

## Syntax

```css
/* Keyword values */
text-spacing-trim: normal;
text-spacing-trim: space-all;
text-spacing-trim: space-first;
text-spacing-trim: trim-start;

/* Global values */
text-spacing-trim: inherit;
text-spacing-trim: initial;
text-spacing-trim: revert;
text-spacing-trim: revert-layer;
text-spacing-trim: unset;
```

### Values

- `<spacing-trim>`

  - : Defines the different spacing trim options. Available values are:

    - `normal`
      - : Sets CJK full width opening punctuation characters to be full width at the start of each line. Sets CJK full width closing punctuation characters to be full width at the end of each line, or half width if they do not fit on the line prior to justification. [Collapses spacing](#full_width_punctuation_collapsing) between punctuation characters.
    - `space-all`
      - : All CJK full width punctuation characters are set to be full width.
    - `space-first`

>       - : Behaves as `normal`, except that CJK full width opening punctuation characters are set to be full width at the start of the first line of the text's block container, and every subsequent line after an explicit line break (for example, a newline character).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - : Behaves as `normal,` except that CJK full-width opening punctuation characters are set to be full width at the start of the first line of the text's block container and the start of every line coming after an explicit line break, such as a newline character.
```
i had to read the sentence several times, so made it more explicit to what i think it does.

Author: Cool, that makes sense. I've made your changes mostly, with a couple of tweaks.

Author: Cool, that makes sense. I've made your changes mostly, with a couple of tweaks.

    - `trim-start`

      - : Behaves as `normal`, except that CJK full width opening punctuation characters are set to be half width at the start of each line.

>       The specification also defines `trim-both`, `trim-all`, and `auto` values, however these are not currently implemented in any browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> The [CSS Text](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_text) module also defines `trim-both,` `trim-all,` and `auto` values. However, these are not currently implemented in any browser.
```
I've been seeing several of these 'not supported' values, and just recently "standardized" it, and started making these comment notes

Author: OK, updated. I'll use that style in the future.

## Description

> `text-spacing-trim` applies spacing / kerning to CJK punctuation characters to produce visually-pleasing typography as defined by the [Requirements for Japanese Text Layout](https://w3c.github.io/jlreq/) (JLREQ) and [Requirements for Chinese Text Layout](https://www.w3.org/International/clreq/) (CLREQ).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `text-spacing-trim` property applies spacing / kerning to CJK punctuation characters to produce visually-pleasing typography as defined by the [Requirements for Japanese text layout](https://w3c.github.io/jlreq/) (JLREQ) and the [Requirements for Chinese text layout](https://www.w3.org/International/clreq/) (CLREQ).
```
 * started with "the" to not start a paragraph with a lowercase letter.
 * i think we use sentence case even for titles
 * added a the

Author: Updated

Many CJK punctuation characters include glyph-internal spacing. For example, the CJK full stop and the CJK close parenthesis usually have glyph-internal spacing on their right-hand side, to give them a constant [advance measure](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Advance_measure) consistent with other ideographic characters. However, when they appear in a row, the glyph-internal spacing can become excessive.

`text-spacing-trim` can be used to adjust such excessive spacing between adjacent characters (kerning) and at the start or end of text lines. Generally speaking:

- If a full width punctuation character is set to be full width, it has internal spacing set on both sides and is the full width of an ideograph.

> - If a full width punctuation character is set to be half width, it has internal spacing set on one side only, and its other side is flush to the start (in the case of opening punctuation characters) or end (in the case of closing punctuation characters). Half width characters are typically half the width of an ideograph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If a full-width punctuation character is set to be half-width, it has internal spacing set on one side only, and its other side is flush to the start in the case of opening punctuation characters or end in the case of closing punctuation characters. Half-width characters are typically half the width of an ideograph.
```

> > **Note:** To avoid the risk of excessive kerning, fonts must have the OpenType Alternate Half Widths (`halt`) or Contextual Half-width Spacing (`chws`) feature, or both. If the font doesn't have either feature, `text-spacing-trim` is disabled.

Reviewer: can we link this to font features?

Author: I thought about this, but the font features page is out-of-date and doesn't cover these features or others.

### Full width punctuation collapsing

> When pairs of punctuation characters appear adjacent to one another, the space between them is colapsed according to the following rules:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When pairs of punctuation characters are adjacent to one another, the space between them is collapsed according to the following rules:
```

Author: updated

> - Set a full width opening punctuation character to half width if the previous character is a fullwidth opening punctuation character, a fullwidth middle dot, an ideographic space (U+3000), a fullwidth closing punctuation character of an equivalent or larger font-size, or a character belonging to Unicode general category Ps. Otherwise set it to full width.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Set a fullwidth opening punctuation character to half width if the previous character is a fullwidth opening punctuation character, a fullwidth middle dot, an ideographic space (U+3000), a fullwidth closing punctuation character of an equivalent or larger font size, or a character belonging to Unicode general category Ps. Otherwise, set it to full width.
```
In this suggestion, the suggestions for dash or no dash come from Grammarly. I see a mix  and am not sure exactly which is correct for each situation. So, this suggestion doesn't need to be applied, but please. check dash usage to see that it is expressing what you intended the way you intnended it to.

> - Set a full width closing punctuation character to half width if the next character is a fullwidth closing punctuation character, a fullwidth middle dot, an ideographic space (U+3000), a fullwidth opening punctuation character of a larger font-size, or a character belonging to Unicode general category Pe. Otherwise set it to full width.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Set a full-width closing punctuation character to half-width if the next character is a fullwidth closing punctuation character, a fullwidth middle dot, an ideographic space (U+3000), a fullwidth opening punctuation character of a larger font size, or a character belonging to Unicode general category Pe. Otherwise, set it to full width.
```
can we link Pe or Unicode general category Pe to an explainer?

Author: Good idea. I've linked Pe and Ps to some useful reference pages.

## Formal definition

{{CSSInfo}}

## Formal syntax

{{CSSSyntax}}

## Examples

### `text-spacing-trim` value comparison

This example compares the effect of four different `text-spacing-trim` properties, applying them to four identical paragraphs so you can see the visual differences betwene each one.

#### HTML

```html
<main>
  <div id="normal">
    <h2>normal</h2>

>     <p class="test">

Reviewer: you could get rid of the test class and just use `p`

Author: Good call; done.

      （東）、【「（東）」】。<br />
      「東」「東」「東」東東東「東」。
    </p>
  </div>
  <div id="space-first">
    <h2>space-first</h2>
    <p class="test">
      （東）、【「（東）」】。<br />
      「東」「東」「東」東東東「東」。
    </p>
  </div>
  <div id="trim-start">
    <h2>trim-start</h2>
    <p class="test">
      （東）、【「（東）」】。<br />
      「東」「東」「東」東東東「東」。
    </p>
  </div>
</main>
```

#### CSS

```css
main {
  font-family: "Yu Gothic", "YuGothic", "Noto Sans JP", "Hiragino Sans",
    "Hiragino Kaku Gothic ProN", sans-serif;
  display: grid;
  gap: 0.5em;
  grid-template-columns: 1fr 1fr;
  width: 70%;
  margin: 0 auto;
}
h2 {
  font-size: 80%;
  margin: 0;
}
.test {
  font-size: 20px;
  border: 1px solid blue;
  margin: 0;
}
#normal {
  text-spacing-trim: normal;
  grid-column: 1;
  grid-row: 1;
}
#space-all {
  text-spacing-trim: space-all;
  grid-column: 2;
  grid-row: 1;
}
#space-first {
  text-spacing-trim: space-first;
  grid-column: 1;
  grid-row: 2;
}
#trim-start {
  text-spacing-trim: trim-start;
  grid-column: 2;
  grid-row: 2;
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("`text-spacing-trim` value comparison", "100%",320)}}

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

> - The [CSS Text](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_text) module

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`ic](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Values_and_Units#local_font-relative_lengths) and [`ric`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Values_and_Units#root_font-relative_lengths) units
- [CSS Text](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_text) module
```

Author: Added

`text-spacing-trim` can be used to adjust such excessive spacing between adjacent characters (kerning) and at the start or end of text lines. Generally speaking:

- If a full-width punctuation character is set to be full-width, it has internal spacing set on both sides and is the full width of an ideograph.
- If a full-width punctuation character is set to be half-width, it has internal spacing set on one side only, and its other side is flush to the start (in the case of opening punctuation characters) or end (in the case of closing punctuation characters). Half-width characters are typically half the width of an ideograph.

> **Note:** To avoid the risk of excessive kerning, fonts must have the OpenType Alternate Half Widths (`halt`) feature, the Contextual Half-width Spacing (`chws`) feature, or both. If the font doesn't have either feature, `text-spacing-trim` is disabled.

> > å

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    <h2>space-all</h2>
    <p>
      （東）、【「（東）」】。<br />
      「東」「東」「東」東東東「東」。
    </p>
  </div>
  <div id="space-first">
    <h2>space-first</h2>
    <p>
      （東）、【「（東）」】。<br />
      「東」「東」「東」東東東「東」。
    </p>
  </div>
  <div id="trim-start">
    <h2>trim-start</h2>
    <p>
      （東）、【「（東）」】。<br />
      「東」「東」「東」東東東「東」。
    </p>
  </div>
</main>
```

#### CSS

```css
main {
  font-family: "Yu Gothic", "YuGothic", "Noto Sans JP", "Hiragino Sans",
    "Hiragino Kaku Gothic ProN", sans-serif;
  display: grid;
  gap: 0.5em;
  grid-template-columns: 1fr 1fr;
  width: 70%;
  margin: 0 auto;
}
h2 {
  font-size: 80%;
  margin: 0;
}
p {
  font-size: 20px;
  border: 1px solid blue;
  margin: 0;
}
#normal {
  text-spacing-trim: normal;
  grid-column: 1;
  grid-row: 1;
}
#space-all {
  text-spacing-trim: space-all;
  grid-column: 2;
  grid-row: 1;
}
#space-first {
  text-spacing-trim: space-first;
  grid-column: 1;
  grid-row: 2;
}
#trim-start {
  text-spacing-trim: trim-start;
  grid-column: 2;
  grid-row: 2;
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("`text-spacing-trim` value comparison", "100%",320)}}

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

> - [`ic`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Values_and_Units#local_font-relative_lengths) and [`ric`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Values_and_Units#root_font-relative_lengths) units
> - [`ic](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Values_and_Units#local_font-relative_lengths) and [`ric`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Values_and_Units#root_font-relative_lengths) units

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`ic`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Values_and_Units#local_font-relative_lengths) and [`ric`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Values_and_Units#root_font-relative_lengths) units
```
